Hey, guys, I am Sean.
I am a software engineer, and today I want to talk to you about a lot of mistakes that beginners make
when they first start working as a programmer and sometimes they end up getting fired because of those
mistakes.
So if you don't want that to happen to you, then please watch till the end.
So it's a combination of things I struggle with as well as trends I noticed in my previous projects.
I think the experiences I share with you today would be very helpful, whether you are a student in
college or self-taught or you're already working as a software engineer.
So the first mistake I noticed programmers making is that they forget that the application they're creating
is for business users and those users are not technical people who use your application or not developers.
So we should not use technical words like if the application has an error, we should tell them a business
reason like network issue or not.
So there was this developer on my team and one of the features he was creating was like a Google search.
And when there were no results, he displayed something like no children available.
So a business user would be completely lost.
Looking at this message, he would be wondering, did I search for children so well, we should vote
was something like no results found.
A developer should think about business users and the user experience while developing a feature.
OK, guys, before we move forward, please consider subscribing and turning authentications at Boston.
You would know every week about coding interviews and data structures and algorithms and all the helpful
tips and tricks for developers like this.
So you don't want to miss out.
The second mistake I noticed programmers making is that most of them don't like to add no checks to
their code.
As developers, we need to think dynamically about every situation.
A feature should not rely on static data because many times the data changes and server is not responding.
We don't.
If we don't add enough checks, then our code will crash.
An application will look like a total joke in front of business users.
So always add no checks no matter how annoying it is.
The third mistake developers don't always think about security issues.
We just code our future just to finish it and don't think about those annoying hackers.
I have seen some code where I was able to hack a feature just by removing some success to this kind
of mistake could cost your company millions of dollars and is not good for your career.
So always check your code for security issues and fix them right away.
All right.
So the fourth mistake, developers don't like to show their code to their team members.
This is very important in software development and should always be open for feedback.
We are humans, so we do make mistakes, even if we are experts.
If you don't code review, then those mistakes will begin to show months later when your team members
have to update or add new features into your logic, they will be mad that they have to fix your silly
mistakes and it could cause major issues as well.
Your reputation could get hurt and you could lose your job.
So always pulled over.
Sure.
Your code to the team and do code reviews.
It is very, very important.
All right.
So the first mistake, this mistake is a very common one.
And I do find international developers doing it very often for most developers, English as a second
language and managers understand that.
But the business does not.
In one of my projects, we were creating a mobile app and one developer wrote Hypponen instead of iPhones.
And trust me, that got a lot of negative attention from business team spelling mistakes make developers
look like children and destroys our reputation as professionals.
So always remember to spell check your code or at least you can review your code a couple of times.
All right, guys, these are the five common mistakes software engineers make.
So thanks for watching.
I hope this information was valuable.
And let me know in the comments below, if you want more videos like this, my next video will be on
coding question and solution or maybe data structures.
So please subscribe and turn on your notifications.
I want to help you guys have a successful software development career like me.
OK, guys, so that's all for today.
And I will see you guys in the next video, PSN.